add Docker databases page (#19)
navarroaxel/navarroaxel.github.io: blog/how-to-use-databases-in-the-docker-world.md

# How to use databases in the Docker world

> We can run DB engines locally on our machine without install them using Docker containers. We're going to check 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can run DB engines locally on our machine without installing them by using Docker containers.
```

Check solo no tiene mucho sentido me parece, o a mi me hace ruido. De ultima podrias decir: `Here we are going to check this out` o algo asi

💡 Remember that the container's data is removed with the container itself, so, we're going to store the DB data into a specific Docker volume (`--volume`) to keep it in time.

## MongoDB

We can start a MongoDB instance with this simple command:

```bash
docker run --detach --name mongo \
  --publish 27017:27017 \
  --volume mongo:/data/db \
  mongo
```

> This starts a Docker container that runs the `mongod` process, and it listens the default MongoDB port `27017`. By default MongoDB uses the `test` database and only accepts connections from `localhost` without authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This starts a Docker container that runs the `mongod` process and listens the default MongoDB port `27017`. By default MongoDB uses the `test` database and only accepts connections from `localhost` without authentication.
```

### The Docker run command

Let's explain the `docker run` arguments:

1. `--detach` runs the container in background, like a service.
2. `--name` assigns a specific name to the created container.
3. `--publish` forwards a specific port in `localhost` to the given container.
4. `--volume` creates or reuse a volume and attach it to the given container in the specified path.

> By default MongoDB uses the `/data/db` directory to store the databases, remember to mount a Docker volume in that path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default MongoDB uses the `/data/db` directory to store the databases (remember to mount a Docker volume in that path).
```

### A MongoDB root user

> You can specify a `root` user to the DB adding the following environment variables you the container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify a `root` user to the DB adding the following environment variables to your the container
```

```bash
docker run --detach --name mongo \
  -env MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=mongoadmin \
  --env MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret \
  --publish 27017:27017 \
  --volume mongo:/data/db \
  mongo
```

For more variables check the `mongo` image page in [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/mongo).

### Using the MongoDB shell

> You can connect via terminal using the `mongosh` command in the same container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can connect to your DB via terminal by using the `mongosh` command in the same container.
```

```bash
docker exec -it mongo mongosh
```

Use `--username` and `--password` if those values are required.

### How to update the engine

> We can update a DB instance easily if we previously stored the DB data in a Docker volume ‼️. This is import, otherwise we'll lose data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can update a DB instance easily if we have previously stored the DB data in a Docker volume ‼️. This is important, otherwise we'll lose data.
```

1. Pull the latest MongoDB image

    ```bash
    docker pull mongo
    ```

1. First stop and remove the Docker container

    ```bash
    docker stop mongo
    docker rm mongo
    ```

> 1. Recreate the container with the same given arguments, remember to include the `--env` variables.

Reviewer: Que onda estos numeros? Todos 1. ?

Author: The markdown follows the numbering.

    ```bash
    docker run --detach --name mongo \
      --publish 27017:27017 \
      --volume mongo:/data/db \
      mongo
    ```

> It's done! your database is up to date. 🙌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's done! your database is now up to date. 🙌
```

# PostgreSQL

For Posgres remember to set the root user password.

```bash
docker run --detach --name pg \
  --env POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret \
  --volume pgdata:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
  --publish 5432:5432 \
  postgres
```

By default the username is `postgres` but you can override that value using the `POSTGRES_USER` variable.

For more variables check the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) page.

### Connecting via terminal

> You can connect via terminal using the same container instead of install the client on your machine, just use the correct username

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can connect via terminal using the same container with the correct username instead of installing the client on your machine.
```

```bash
docker exec -it pg psql --username=postgres
```

> The password is not required to connect from the same host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The password is not required to connections from the same host.
```

## MySQL

MySQL follows the Postgres rules with

```bash
docker run --detach --name mysql \
  --env MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret \
  --volume mysql:/var/lib/mysql \
  --publish 3306:3306 \
  mysql
```

More information in [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql).

### Connecting via terminal

```
docker exec -it mysql mysql -p
```

The client will prompt for the root password.

## Microsoft SQL Server

Microsoft needs that you declare that you have a license to the SQL Server that you want to use with `ACCEPT_EULA=Y`. 🙄

```bash
docker run --name mssql \
  --env ACCEPT_EULA=Y \
  --env 'SA_PASSWORD=yourStrong(!)Password' \
  --volume mssql:/var/opt/mssql \
  --publish 1433:1433 \
  mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server
```

> Also, the SA password have stronger constraints than the other engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, the SA password has stronger constraints than the other engines.
```
